we have seen what computers and
automation have done to particular
industries or even different professions
this has only just begun we have watched
new technology come on board in order to
replace the old trying to increase
productivity along the way all in the
name of increasing corporate profits
quarter after quarter you came here for
the truth today we are going to look at
this issue and then I want to connect
that in with the fed Amazon is rolling
out pickup point in the United States
where shoppers can retrieve items
immediately after ordering them
shortening delivery times from hours to
minutes essentially they've set up these
brick-and-mortar locations in five
college campuses one being the
University of California and this is
directed towards fast selling items
you're not going to be able to order
everything that Amazon has but things
like snacks and drinks so people can
walk in they can grab what they need so
you order on your app you walk in there
are lockers in there you punch in your
code you get what you need you walk out
so no longer do you need to speak to a
cashier or have any human involvement
you will simply utilize these automated
systems no cashier needed no human
interaction whatsoever that's the goal
that's what they try to set up and you
can see that Amazon is getting more and
more into the food and with the purchase
of Whole Foods for example and you'll
see that they've suggested that they're
not going to replace the cashiers just
yet but if you look around
many of these supermarkets already have
the self checkout which never works by
the way self checkout systems in order
to reduce the need for cashiers it's
just one small step but there are
millions and millions of cashiers in the
United States alone and these people
rely on these jobs but I do see
automation such as this replacing a very
large percentage of them now does that
mean the corner store around your street
is going to be replaced by automation
probably not anytime soon but it's
happening
faster and faster and I assure you if
the owner of a particular store could
implement something like that's where
they don't even need a human to be
involved at all and they could do so
relatively cheaply they probably will a
lot of these convenience stores are
franchises and they can probably
implement something like this on a broad
scale that's just something I've thought
about this is what Amazon is pushing for
this is what all the big billionaire
companies are pushing for and we can see
it happening every single day
the suburban shopping malls that hollow
out Main Street in the 1970s and 80s
have increasingly become hollow shells
themselves more closures expected
headlines about America's most
recognized brand look at this Sears
Macy's RadioShack payless shoes have
been dominated by store closings and
bankruptcies quite as Credit Suisse has
projected that eighty six hundred stores
will close in 2017 alone easily
surpassing the rate of closures during
the Great Recession so already we are
past that level now is technology much
better than it was ten years ago perhaps
it's better there's a lot more
automation we can see what's happened
with simple apps on our phones and you
can see that there are many more
services available but let's be
realistic not much has changed in terms
of the way that we live our lives
however I think that a lot of these
store closures are in fact to do with
the difference in technology people are
definitely more comfortable using online
stores and ordering online however I
simply don't factor in all of these
stores closing because of that we have a
much bigger picture to look at here and
is that the general economy isn't doing
well
people are really unable to afford the
things that they need and they need to
look for cheaper and cheaper deals we
see people going more online that in
fact but let me get into another point
just just hang on there for a moment
here
look at this billionaire entrepreneur
Richard Branson is the latest in a
string a conic business meant to talk
about cash handouts or universal basic
income something that are brought up
many times before as a solution to the
jobs being replaced by technology ok
I'll give my opinion in a moment just
let me do this with the acceleration of
artificial intelligence and other
technology technology the world is
changing fast a lot of exciting new
innovations are going to be created
which will generate a lot of
opportunities and a lot of wealth but
there's a real danger it could also
reduce the amount of jobs and I
completely agree with that and it's not
a danger I mean that's the way it is it
will replace jobs but there are
individuals who are creating these
robots creating these automated programs
and everything else so that's new jobs
however I think the total amount of jobs
will be reduced that's my opinion on
this you can say what you like so
essentially Branson is just one of many
he's actually late to the game because
we've seen other individuals out there
like Ray Kurzweil
Ray Kurzweil famous for some things I
won't mention on this video freaky stuff
co-founder of the singularity University
and essentially he said he wants a ubi
to cover the basic necessities you'll do
something that you enjoy that you have
the passion for why don't we just call
that work so he's saying that look
everybody's gonna get a lot of money no
need to worry about what you do just
enjoy it
you can make significantly less because
don't worry the government's going to
give you money this doesn't work if this
was a fact why wouldn't they just give
everybody millions and millions of
dollars if central bank's printing money
giving it to people does not create
inflation does not destroy the wealth of
people does not destroy the entire
economy why wouldn't we just give
millions of dollars to everybody of
course doesn't work with that
they try to balance it that's for sure
but they don't do the job that all right
this is the set I love the bed they give
me a lot of material to talk about now
the Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco is talking about jobs this is
about their most recent meeting in fact
they talk in this article here a lot of
lying a lot of as far as I'm considered
it's the fake information aggregate wage
measures remain low because the baby
boomers are retiring in this view older
high wage workers are being replaced by
younger workers who make less simply
because they're in early stage in their
careers that is holding down measures of
the average wages wages but individual
workers may still be seeing healthier
wage growth are you sure about that
is this the said that said this I've
shown you the statistics that
individuals today earn less in a new
position than they did years ago they do
not earn the same amount that they did
back then and I'm talking about using
consistent numbers of course you're not
going to be able to get around that
because of the fact that they the type
of jobs that are available today are
much different we are seeing a lot of
low paying jobs that are growing a lot
of high paying jobs are not really being
put out there as much as so we see the
low paying jobs we're seeing a lot of
temporary work we are seeing a growth
massive growth in temporary workers but
the companies like uber uber eats them
on their own we see a lot of these food
delivery and I'm not saying it's a bad
thing that we have these services it's
great however we are seeing people that
really want other jobs but they have to
take these jobs so what's happening
where are all the higher pain
people don't want to have to take on a
second job that's where the numbers get
screwed skewed well screwed as well
you're seeing people two and three jobs
that affects the numbers to a great
degree people will realize that sure the
jobs numbers are up but not in reality
LA County leaders greenlight effort to
pay homeowners to house the homeless the
problem has become so bad in LA and
other areas where usually where the
weather is better that they can live
outdoors much more easy however look at
this this shows you that the public is
realizing there's a problem
the government's responding and instead
of forking out cash directly to create
facilities they simply pay people the
problem is continuing to worsen it's
something that I always cover but nobody
cares nobody cares about the homeless
and nobody seems to want to look at it
just look away just look away
Toronto's problem and I should do an
entire video about this just quickly on
the corner of Yonge and King Street in
Toronto okay right in the financial
sector we're seeing the big banks
everybody's there that's where a lot of
the wealth is concentrated you see your
Bentley's your Rolls Royce you see your
Tesla's you see your every luxury car
imaginable driving by here and on that
corner on one day the last time I walked
by that location four corners for
homeless people that's what we have we
have a grand disparity which has been
clearly shown and if you go to that
corner and I'm sure that every city has
the same thing where you have the wealth
driving by in their fancy cars at the
same time you have the poorest of the
poor sleeping on the side of the road
that's what I see I'm willing to admit
it if you found this video informative
please give me a thumbs up
and support me in any way you can
appreciate that very much
simply giving me a thumbs up subscribing
and commenting is so helpful to me and I
do appreciate that if you found these
videos informative I know you'll find my
books the money GPS and my newer release
global economic collapse even more
informative the first book is about the
four asset classes and how to profit
from them whereas my new release is
about reducing your monthly expenses
becoming self-sufficient in what I call
the money
GPS strategy you could take a look
through these book the hands-on links
are in the description below
take care